if you're talking with an individual and they're starting to give you
those indicators that they're having thoughts of suicide the first thing
is you know don't leave that individual loan trying talk with them
you can even ask them directly have you thought about hurting yourself
or anyone else around you start to see if if they're really gonna
tell you most the time you'll find that if somebody's really thought
about it they're probably gonna tell you that they have they're
gonna give you indications that they have started thinking about that
and then obviously don't leave that personal loan take them somewhere
to get help whether that's to medical whether that's to the chaplain
with us to some other sort of counseling function but you know
it's not your job to fix that person right then and there you probably
don't have the skills necessary to do that your skills are still
listen be a good listener ask questions and then get them to the help
that they need